1 Write a shell script to show various system configuration like currently logged user
and his logname, your current shell, home directory, operating system type, 
currentpath setting, current working directory, show currently logged number of 
users, show memory information, Hard disk information like size of hard-disk, 
cache memory, model etc, and file system mounted.
2 Write a shell script to add user and password on Linux system.
3 Write a shell script to print last login details.
4 Write a shell script to upgrade and cleans the system automatically instead of doing
it manually.
5 a.Write a shell script to delete all log files present inside your var/log directory
b. Write script to check if user is root user
c. Write script to print number of files and folders
d. Write Script to Create Directories
6 Write a script that accepts the hostname and IP address as command-line
arguments and adds them to the /etc/hosts file.
7 Write shell script to Swap to numbers without using 3rd variable
8 Write a shell script that delete all lines containing a specified word
9 write a shell script to find the factorial of given integer
10 Configuration of DNS Server with Domain Name.
11 Configuration of NFS File server and transfer files to a windows client.
12 Configuration of Web Server.
13 Configuration of FTP server and transfer files to demonstrate the working of the
same.
14 Write script to demonstrate all command line argument
15 a. Write script to perform following String Operation
 Find Length of String
 Find and Replace String
 To Concatenate String
 Reversing the string
16 Write to check whether entered string is palindrome or not
17 Write shells script to display menu for Celsius to Fahrenheit and Fahrenheit to 
Celsius, Read the temperature accordingly and convert.
18 Write Shell Script to find square and cube of the numbers between 1 to 10
Print number , Square and Cube of the numbers
19 Write Bash script to display name and a greeting message with some information
20 Write shell Script to display Following information using environment variables
like SHELL,USER,PWD,PATH,LANG,HOME,BASH_VERSION,BASH_VERSINFO
HOSTNAME,UID etc
21 Write Menu Drive program using Shell script to Perform Following operation like 
Addition, Subtraction , multiplication, Division, remainder
22 Write Shell Script to find maximum of three numbers, read number from user
23 Write Shell script using for loop to generate fibonacci Series till the limit specified 
by user
24 Write shell script to perform Following String Operations
1. Checks if the given string operand size is non-zero
2. Checks if the given string operand size is zero
3. Checks if the value of two operands are equal 
4. Checks if the value of two operands are not equal 
5. Checks if str is not the empty string; if it is empty
25 Write Shell Script to perform Following Operations(Any 10)
1. Checks if file is a block special file
2. Checks if file is a character special file
3. Checks if file is a directory
4. Checks if file is an ordinary file as opposed to a directory or special file
5. Checks if file has its set group ID (SGID) bit set
6. Checks if file has its sticky bit set
7. Checks if file is a named pipe
8. Checks if file descriptor is open and associated with a terminal
9. Checks if file has its Set User ID (SUID) bit set
10. Checks if file is readable
11. Checks if file is writable
12. Checks if file is executable
13. Checks if file has size greater than 0
14. Checks if file exists
26 Write Bash script find factorial of all the number using Loop, number is to be read 
from user
27 Write bash script to find sum of square of n numbers, read n from user
28 Write Bash script to find whether character is vowel , consonant, Special Character 
or Digit use switch case
29 Write Bash script to find whether character is vowel , consonant, Special Character 
or Digit use if else
30 Write a shell program to check if a given string is a palindrome or not. 
31 Write shell script to demonstrate Command Line Argument
i.Positional Parameters
ii.Using Flag
iii.Using Loops with $@ – Loop Constructs
iv. Use of $#,$*,$$,$? And S!
32 Write shell script to demonstrate Sort command with different sort command 
option
sort –b,sort –r,sort –o,sort –n,sort –M,sort –u,sort -ksort -t SEP
33 Write shell script to display number of character, words and Lines in text file using 
wc Command
34 Write shell script to find reverse of 5 digit number using while loop
35 Write shell script to generate prime number between limit specified by user using 
for loop
36 Write shell script to Generate sum of N numbers. Read N from user and until loop
37 Write shell script to display 4x4 matrix and read data from user from keyboard. 
Use for Loop
Note
1 ls,wc,pwd,man,cut,useradd,userdel,passwd,grep,vi,cut,sort,diff,ip,date,head,tail,cp,
mv,rm,rmdir,cat,tac
banner,sort,nano,unmask, chmod, chown,chgrp,df,du,kill,tar, ps,less, history,sudo, 
su,locate, clear
2 Student should know file structure of Linux
3. Linux Booting Sequence 
4. All practical Questions written in Book